I'm dying I'm dying also I'm not very
good at editing so I realized that like
I you know people I should probably put
like a piece of pizza right here right
now or something cool over there I don't
know how to do any of this stuff yet but
just like with my podcast my early
episodes I had no idea how to edit those
either but I had something to say and
testing this hypothesis that if the
message is strong enough and good enough
it'll break through the noise you know
then maybe I'll learn how to put music
underneath this whole thing or something
like that like this there and that
better
so part of being super sick today and
committing to making YouTube videos is
that I'm still gonna make a video and
even though I feel like straight death
today I want to talk about why I sold my
business it wasn't a serious business
I've been teaching full-time for 10
years but I say serious because it
wasn't full-time I'm not one of those
people that can't breathe unless they're
running their own business like That's
not me
however I do think I would die if I
couldn't run a side business if I had no
outside income if I did depend on a
teacher's paycheck for everything I need
in life I'd probably freak out so
probably one of the most common
questions that I get is how is okay
kimono is going okay kimonos is the jiu
jitsu ghee also known as a kimono the
jiu jitsu ghee company that I started
kind of around 2011 people still ask
most of the time they call it karate or
kung-fu those of you who have watched
the UFC know that Brazilian Jiu Jitsu is
about choking people and slamming him on
their faces and breaking arms and legs
so very different than a kung fu or
karate so around the end of 2015 I sat
down and really looked at where I wanted
to be in my life I reflected on the past
year what it went well Wood had not gone
well and is this what I want to do
forever I wrote a bunch of posts on my
website about you know my personal
website about things that had gone well
things that hadn't gone well and while
there was a lot that had gone well there
was also a lot of stuff that sucked
so let's talk about the first step
so let's talk about things that went
well first is that I sold my first
digital course ever is called sideburn
where university is all about building
business on the side did some webinars
promoted on my podcast made about $4,000
and I was introduced to the world of
digital marketing not for my business
people would just pay me for information
I'd never seen that before
so I launched another course called
productivity fundamentals which was for
entrepreneur dads like me their number
one problem is that they can never find
the time to work on their business so I
want help him with that that also went
super well 2015 I didn't drink it all I
drink now but I didn't drink it all that
it made some really bad choices
regarding alcohol using is a coping
mechanism decided I don't want to drink
anymore it went cold turkey it was
awesome part of going cold turkey is
that it starts to rule your life the
other way where you can never drink even
if you want to so now I drink again I
don't know just what it is and in 2015
we found out we were gonna have another
baby which was amazing
he's currently sleeping right up there
it's got to be a little bit quiet and
then I also started reading the Bible
which was super important I have been
very inconsistent with that but if
something's important to you I think you
should make time for it Bible is
important to me my faith is important to
me so I make time for 2015 was also one
of the hardest years ever at my day job
I was an assistant principal from
getting punched in the face by a kid to
a number of other things it was just a
really bad fit I'm a very good teacher I
am NOT a very good assistant principal I
have since considered and been
encouraged to go back into
administration and I have
zero desire to do that but what I did do
in 2015 as I decided to pour everything
I could into one kid at the school I met
with him every day before school every
day after school and I kind of helped
him turn his life around a little bit
like he made the choices right he did
the work but it just showed me like if
you really pour yourself into somebody
you can really change a life and then
like a much other crap I made small
websites did some other things like went
to many directions at wants whatever but
it was really good I was like the
happiest I've ever been in 2015 but
let's talk about what didn't go so well
I was super beat up from Brazilian
Jujitsu my mobility was crap my body
heard all the time it was overall just a
mess my training went to garbage and for
me somebody who's grown up and it's
probably still coping with being a fat
kid his whole life my training super
important so to have that outlet go to
crap was really hard
also not bunch other nonsense like I
told you my job I stopped meditating
because I wanted to work more for some
reason I thought those 10 minutes would
matter they didn't I spent most of that
just be a saying so we were right you
make a course about productivity and
then have like the crappiest
productivity ever right but here's the
biggest thing that I couldn't talk about
for that whole freaking year I was
trying to sell my business and I
couldn't tell anybody because I was
afraid of a D value people would stop
buying the stuff if they knew that I was
trying to sell it it took seven months
seven months to sell that beast through
a bunch of self-awareness you know kind
of work and talking to other people and
talking people were smarter than me and
of business better than me I just
decided it was time here's why
you know while a lot had gone great over
those five years and I had done a bunch
of great work and met a lot of
incredible people and made really cool
products and was really creative and it
was really amazing I considered the idea
of having to live the rest of my life
sending twenty fifty if we're gonna do
it at scale a hundred thousand dollar
checks to China and Pakistan to get
these guys made that scared the heck
I couldn't do it there was just no way
that I was gonna be able to send that
much money and hope that a factory
didn't get flooded or flake out on me or
anything like that just decided wasn't
my jam
especially after looking at how good I
was at digital marketing the other thing
is too that the easiest way to kill your
passion is by making a business out of
it and that's exactly what I did I made
a business out of something that I was
passionate about and I destroyed that
passion I'm not here to get business
advice because I don't necessarily
always love any business that I've done
but what I can tell you is you have to
know that ahead of time everybody tells
you that if you build a business or I'm
doing something you're passionate about
you'll never work a day in your life
those people are fake and full of crap
it is hard some days you just got to put
your butt in the freaking seat and do
the work so I decided to start a new
business I just kind of decided this
isn't my jam it took seven months to
sell it and it was terrible and long and
hard but I did it I think my best piece
of advice when you're starting a
business is looking at the end game
where you want to go there's this
beautiful analogy about climbing the
ladder and then realizing it's leaned up
against the wrong wall I never
considered trying to do it full-time I
had been sold this dream of like quit
your day job start something on the side
like quit your nine-to-five nine-to-five
jobs suck like blah blah blah live the
entrepreneurial lifestyle like no you
know I just watched a video on CNN where
they were talking about Silicon Valley
startups and the depression that goes
along with all of that kind of stuff
like nobody is crushing it nobody is
winning it's so hard running your own
business is so hard
I think I'm wired for it but it's still
just a hypothesis I mean don't get me
wrong like I said it took seven months
and a year before that so the year
before I sold my business I had to go
through this whole emotional process of
like letting go
moving on understanding that quitting
something that didn't make me happy and
wasn't gonna get me where I wanted to be
in life was okay I had to get over this
and to get over this idea of treating
that time as if it were lost and not
realizing that I learned a bunch of new
skills was way better at a lot of
different things
and also was able to teach a lot of
people different things because now I
had a case study of me I had put my
heart and soul into this thing for five
years for five years like most people I
don't I know have never done anything
for five years in a row I got a bit 3
a.m. every day for like three of those
years to work I just had to get over the
fact that that was not lost time and
it's okay to quit something that isn't
working because it'll give you the
headspace to start something new so in
my next video I'm going to talk about
the new business that I started and what
I'm working on right now which i think
is pretty exciting
I've been Brendon Hufford don't forget
to work hard be nice to people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters